.. _sec-about:

*************
About Cantera
*************

Cantera is an open source scientific computing project, that allows users to
quickly and efficiently incorporate and execute fundamental thermodynamic,
chemical kinetic, and species transport calculations in their work. This can be
achieved by standalone command-line calls to core Cantera functions,
incorporating these calls into bespoke code or software, or by using any of the
solvers or examples distributed with the Cantera software package.

Cantera was originally started by Prof. David G. Goodwin at the California
Institute of Technology. Building on Prof. Goodwin's legacy, Cantera is licensed
under a permissive 3-Clause BSD license, ensuring that the software will remain
available for all to use.

Cantera is developed openly on GitHub. Contributions are welcomed from anyone in
the community; please see the `Contributors guide
<https://github.com/Cantera/cantera/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`_ for
assistance in getting started.

All online and in-person interactions and communications related to Cantera are
governed by the `Cantera Code of Conduct
<https://github.com/Cantera/cantera/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`_. This code
of conduct sets expectations for the community to ensure that users and
contributors are able to participate in a respectful and welcoming environment.

Steering Committee
==================

The role of the steering committee is to ensure the long-term health of the
Cantera project. This includes overseeing the development of the Cantera code
and community in a way that most benefits the entire community of users and
contributors. The steering committee can be contacted at `steering@cantera.org
<mailto:steering@cantera.org>`_ The current steering committee (in alphabetical
order) is:

    * Steven Decaluwe, Colorado School of Mines
    * \C. Franklin Goldsmith, Brown University
    * Kyle Niemeyer, Oregon State University
    * Raymond Speth, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
    * Bryan Weber, University of Connecticut
    * Richard West, Northeastern University

Donations
=========

Cantera is a fiscally sponsored project of NumFOCUS, a 501(c)3 nonprofit
dedicated to supporting the open source scientific computing community. If you
have found Cantera to be useful to your research or company, please consider
making a `donation <https://www.flipcause.com/secure/cause_pdetails/Mjk3MjU=>`_
to support our efforts. All donations will be used exclusively to fund the
development of Cantera's source code, documentation, or community.

.. image:: /_static/images/SponsoredProject.png
    :alt: Powered by NumFOCUS
    :target: https://numfocus.org
    :align: center
    :scale: 50%

.. raw:: html

    <div style="text-align:center">
    <a href="https://www.flipcause.com/secure/cause_pdetails/Mjk3MjU=" class="button">Donate to Cantera</a>
    </div>
